--- 
:date: 1353484606
:type: book_review
:title: Rule 34
:format: Markdown
:slug: rule-34
:author: Charles Stross
---

Great fun.

This is a great little detective story, set about 30 years from now. Like most
good sci-fi, it's got a lot of characters to let you experience a lot of points
of view about a new world, but the closest thing to a 'main' character we have
here is Dorothy, head of the Edinburg police department's division on tracking
internet memes as they may or may not relate to copycats in the real world.
This means it's her job to know about Rule 34. I refuse to link it, because you
should already know it.

It's a pretty quick read, funny, and fast. The details of the world come out
as ancillary concerns to the characters' day-to-day lives, my favorite kind of
exposition. To add to the Rule 34-ness of the whole book, most every character
is some kind of deviant, or at least gay. It's excellent.

Unlike some sci-fi which picks one giant change and tries to think of how the
world might change, this is really more of a collection of tiny changes.
There's a big change, but it only comes out at the end and it's more of a
punchline than a world feature. Stross finds the funny angle on more or less
all of these changes, and it's great.

On a personal note, I was having fun having to google every other word in a few
chapters, which are told from the point of view of full-on Scotsmen with
full-on accents. So I
[tweeted](https://twitter.com/bhuga/status/265170138888814592), because I
needed the iPad out anyway. Charles Stross
[responded](https://twitter.com/cstross/status/265174558309502976), and managed
to fit both pooping and masturbation into 140 characters while not really
talking about either. It may as well have been another line in the book.
Perfect.

So here's your advertisement, marketing wonks: Read books by Charles Stross:
The only author that will tweet to you about having a wank while you read his
book about pedophile genetic engineers. If you need more endorsement for a
book, I can't help you.



