--- 
:date: 1352532058
:type: book_review
:title: The Mongoliad Book One
:format: Markdown
:slug: the-mongoliad-book-one
:author: Neal Stephenson, Greg Bear, and a bunch more people, it's confusing
---

Great fun, and a good read.

So [The Mongoliad](http://mongoliad.com) is an experiment by some authors to do
something new with books. It's a serial multimedia fest, with maps,
illustrations, videos, and that kind of thing. It's also a collaboration
between multiple authors. It's that last bit that most interests me. Which is a
good thing, because my Kindle workflow is what I'm using and I'm missing all of
that extra content. Also, Kindle borrower's library, can I get a HELL YEAH!

Anyways, collaboration. I know that in the world of software, we get feedback
all the time on our writing (and I don't think it's so different). The more
feedback, the better it is. If authors can work together, surely they'd get the
same benefits?

I think that's the case here. It's really great writing. The pacing is perfect,
the timing excellent, the details are there for their target audience and
skipped when they'd be boring. And their target audience, make no mistake, is
their *existing* audiences, so it's a male, sword-swinging action book; it's
samurai Rambo for smart kids. It reminds me a lot of REAMDE that way.

But the subject matter, while interesting, isn't treated with any kind of
unique spark. It's historical fiction without the quirks and spark of, say, The
Baroque Cycle or even of REAMDE. The characters are pretty one-dimensional. So
far, we've got the good guys, starring a few sturdy, modest knights, the quirky
alchemist, and the mysterious stealthy orphan. We've got the bad guys, starring
innumerable interchangeable Mongol horsemen. We've got bad guy headquarters,
starring what are perhaps the most interesting, multifaceted characters, but
get the least screen time. And we have a few other also-ran cameos.

I don't think I'd mind seeing more of the world through the eyes of these
one-dimensional characters; I've never read about 1241AD. Sometimes a nice
one-dimensional point of view is a great window onto a world; the simple step
of interpreting their voice makes it easy. But I don't feel like I've
learned cool details about the world like I did after REAMDE or The
Baroque Cycle. They're all too busy doing things to notice the cool bits of
their world; there's a plot to get under way. When we learn a detail, like
Mongolian plank executions, it's laboriously explained by someone rather than
implied from the point of view of a nameless Mongolian horseman who wants to
get it over with and get lunch.


That distracting plot, though, is a fun, romping plot, full of swords and the
kind of cool battle detail and strategy that I've come to love from my favorite
sci fi authors. I don't really care about the descriptions of clothing and
whether or not someone's face is grizzled that many books seem to care about.
Tell me about the naginata. They're rocking it here.

So the book is easy, fun, and fast, and well written. The details are great,
every chapter is great, but the overall story is...well, let's say traditional,
so far, and the world is a backdrop for a plot, instead of something to get a
feel for. It's supposed to be long and serial, so there's time to fix all of
that.

Can author-by-committee produce something amazing? I'm not sure yet, but it's
produced something fun, and I'm going to read the second book and not feel bad
if we never rise above fun.


